.\" ttkbootstrap-tcl man page
.\" Generated for ttkbootstrap-tcl 1.5.0
.TH TTKBOOTSTRAP\-TCL 3tcl "May 2026" "Version 1.5.0" "Tcl/Tk Widget Library"
.SH NAME
ttkbootstrap\-tcl \- Modern themed widget library for Tcl/Tk 9
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B source ttkbootstrap.tcl
.br
.B ttkbootstrap::Window
\fI\-themename name \-title text \-size {w h}\fR
.br
.B ttkbootstrap::setTheme
\fIname\fR
.br
.B ttkbootstrap::getColor
\fIkey\fR
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B ttkbootstrap\-tcl
is a native Tcl/Tk port of the Python ttkbootstrap theme extension.
It provides 64 widgets (27 original + 37 SVG), 18 themes (13 light, 5 dark),
and automatic HiDPI scaling for Tcl/Tk 9.
.PP
SVG widgets use Tk 9's native SVG rendering for crisp, resolution\-independent
UI elements at any DPI.
.SH THEMES
.SS "Light Themes (13)"
cerculean, cosmo, flatly, journal, litera, lumen, minty, morph, pulse,
sandstone, simplex, united, yeti
.SS "Dark Themes (5)"
cyborg, darkly, solar, superhero, vapor
.SS "Theme Commands"
.TP
.B ttkbootstrap::setTheme \fIname\fR
Switch to the named theme at runtime.
.TP
.B ttkbootstrap::themeNames
Return a list of all available theme names.
.TP
.B ttkbootstrap::lightThemes
Return a list of light theme names.
.TP
.B ttkbootstrap::darkThemes
Return a list of dark theme names.
.TP
.B ttkbootstrap::getColor \fIkey\fR
Return the hex colour for \fIkey\fR (primary, secondary, success, info,
warning, danger, light, dark, bg, fg, selectbg, selectfg, border, active,
inputfg, inputbg, font, type).
.SH "ORIGINAL WIDGETS"
.SS "AutocompleteEntry"
Entry with live\-filtered suggestion dropdown.
.RS
.nf
ttkbootstrap::AutocompleteEntry .ac \\
    \-values {Apple Banana Cherry} \\
    \-bootstyle primary
.fi
.RE
Options: \fB\-values\fR list, \fB\-bootstyle\fR, \fB\-maxitems\fR int
.SS "Badge"
Small label for counts or status.
.RS
.nf
ttkbootstrap::Badge .b \-text "NEW" \-bootstyle danger
.fi
.RE
.SS "Breadcrumb"
Navigation path with clickable items.
.RS
.nf
ttkbootstrap::Breadcrumb .bc \\
    \-items {Home Settings Users} \\
    \-bootstyle primary \-command {puts $idx}
.fi
.RE
Subcommands: \fBBreadcrumb::load\fR \fI$w $items\fR, \fBBreadcrumb::get\fR \fI$w\fR
.SS "Card"
Content card with title, body, and footer.
.RS
.nf
set c [ttkbootstrap::Card .c \-title "Summary" \-bootstyle primary]
set body [ttkbootstrap::Card::body $c]
.fi
.RE
.SS "CollapsingFrame"
Accordion\-style collapsible sections.
.SS "DateEntry"
Entry with calendar popup for date selection.
.RS
.nf
ttkbootstrap::DateEntry .de \\
    \-bootstyle primary \-dateformat "%Y\-%m\-%d" \\
    \-textvariable ::mydate
.fi
.RE
.SS "DateRangePicker"
Two linked calendars for selecting a date range.
.SS "EditableTableview"
Tableview with double\-click cell editing. Inherits all Tableview options
plus \fB\-editcolumns\fR.
.SS "Floodgauge"
Progress bar with text overlay showing percentage.
.RS
.nf
ttkbootstrap::Floodgauge .fg \\
    \-bootstyle primary \-variable ::progress \\
    \-text "Loading..." \-mask "%0.0f%%"
.fi
.RE
.SS "Meter"
Circular gauge displaying a value within a range.
.RS
.nf
ttkbootstrap::Meter .m \\
    \-bootstyle primary \-amountused 75 \\
    \-amounttotal 100 \-subtext "CPU"
.fi
.RE
.SS "NotificationBanner"
Slide\-in notification banner.
.SS "ProgressDialog"
Modal dialog with progress bar.
.SS "RatingBar"
Clickable star rating widget.
.SS "ScrolledFrame"
Frame with automatic scrollbars.
.SS "Sidebar"
Navigation sidebar with selectable items.
.RS
.nf
set sb [ttkbootstrap::Sidebar .sb \-bootstyle primary]
ttkbootstrap::Sidebar::add $sb home "Home" \-icon home
ttkbootstrap::Sidebar::select $sb home
.fi
.RE
.SS "SparkLine"
Mini inline chart (line or bar type).
.SS "SplashScreen"
Application splash screen with progress.
.SS "StatusBar"
Bottom status bar with message display.
.SS "StepProgress"
Horizontal step indicator (wizard\-style).
.RS
.nf
set sp [ttkbootstrap::StepProgress .sp \\
    \-steps {Account Profile Payment Done} \\
    \-bootstyle primary]
ttkbootstrap::StepProgress::next $sp
.fi
.RE
.SS "Tableview"
Feature\-rich table with sorting, filtering, pagination.
.RS
.nf
ttkbootstrap::Tableview .tv \\
    \-coldata {{text "Name" stretch 1}} \\
    \-rowdata {{Alice} {Bob}} \\
    \-bootstyle primary \-searchable 1
.fi
.RE
.SS "TagEntry"
Entry that converts text into removable pill tags.
.SS "Timeline"
Vertical timeline with dots, connectors, and content.
.SS "TimePicker"
Entry with clock popup for time selection.
.SS "Toast"
Temporary notification popup.
.SS "ToggleSwitch"
On/off toggle switch with round or square shape.
.SS "Tooltip"
Hover tooltip for any widget.
.SS "Window"
Configure root window with theme and title.
.SH "SVG WIDGETS"
SVG\-rendered widgets using Tk 9 native SVG support. Crisp at any DPI.
.SS "SVGButton"
Rounded\-rectangle button with customisable radius.
.RS
.nf
ttkbootstrap::SVGButton .btn \\
    \-text "Click" \-bootstyle primary \\
    \-radius 6 \-command {puts "Clicked"}
.fi
.RE
Options: \fB\-text\fR, \fB\-bootstyle\fR, \fB\-radius\fR (0=square, omit=rounded), \fB\-outline\fR (0|1),
\fB\-command\fR, \fB\-width\fR, \fB\-height\fR
.SS "PillButton"
Fully rounded pill\-shaped button (SVGButton wrapper).
.RS
.nf
ttkbootstrap::PillButton .pill \\
    \-text "Submit" \-bootstyle success \-outline 1
.fi
.RE
.SS "SVGCheck"
Checkbox with SVG rounded\-rect and checkmark.
.SS "SVGRadio"
Radio button with SVG circles.
.SS "SVGEntry"
Entry with SVG pill-shaped border and focus highlight.
.RS
.nf
ttkbootstrap::SVGEntry .ent \\
    \-bootstyle primary \-textvariable ::name \-width 20
.fi
.RE
.SS "SVGProgress"
Rounded progress bar with clipped fill.
.SS "SVGScale"
Canvas slider with SVG circle thumb and rounded track.
.SS "SVGMeter"
Circular gauge with SVG arc ring.
.SS "SVGFloodgauge"
Progress bar with text overlay.
.SS "SVGBadge"
Pill\-shaped badge with SVG background.
.RS
.nf
ttkbootstrap::SVGBadge .b \-text "99+" \-bootstyle danger
.fi
.RE
.SS "SVGRatingBar"
Clickable star rating with SVG stars.
.SS "SVGSparkLine"
Mini chart with streaming data support.
.RS
.nf
ttkbootstrap::SVGSparkLine .sl \\
    \-data {10 25 15 30} \-bootstyle primary \-type line
ttkbootstrap::SVGSparkLine_push .sl 42
.fi
.RE
.SS "SVGStepProgress"
Step indicator with SVG circles and canvas text.
.SS "SVGScrollbar"
Canvas scrollbar with SVG pill\-shaped thumb.
.SS "SVGTimeline"
Vertical timeline with SVG dots (circle/square shapes).
.RS
.nf
ttkbootstrap::SVGTimeline::add $tl \\
    \-title "Deployed" \-timestamp "14:32" \\
    \-bootstyle success \-icon "\\[u2713]" \-shape circle
.fi
.RE
.SS "SVGBreadcrumb"
Breadcrumb with SVG chevron separators.
.SS "SVGCard"
Card with SVG rounded border and coloured title bar.
.SS "SVGShadowCard"
Card with layered SVG drop shadow effect.
.RS
.nf
set c [ttkbootstrap::SVGShadowCard .c \\
    \-title "Dashboard" \-bootstyle primary \\
    \-shadow 10 \-width 260 \-height 180]
set body [ttkbootstrap::SVGShadowCard::body $c]
.fi
.RE
.SS "SVGTooltip"
Hover tooltip with SVG rounded background.
.SS "SVGDateEntry"
Entry with SVG calendar icon and calendar popup.
.SS "SVGTimePicker"
Entry with SVG clock icon and hour/minute popup.
.SS "SVGSidebar"
Navigation sidebar with active/hover highlighting.

.SS "SVGToggleSwitch"
Animated toggle switch with SVG track and sliding thumb.
.RS
.nf
ttkbootstrap::SVGToggleSwitch .ts \
    \-text "Dark mode" \-variable ::dark \-bootstyle success
.fi
.RE
Options: \fB\-text\fR, \fB\-variable\fR, \fB\-bootstyle\fR, \fB\-command\fR, \fB\-shape\fR (round|square)
.PP
Note: SVGToggleSwitch is a frame-based composite widget, not a ttk button, so
it does not respond to \fB$w invoke\fR. Change its state by setting its
\fB\-variable\fR (the switch redraws and \fB\-command\fR fires); read its
state by querying that variable.
.SS "SVGProgressRing"
Circular progress indicator with determinate and spinning modes.
.RS
.nf
ttkbootstrap::SVGProgressRing .pr \-bootstyle primary \-value 75
ttkbootstrap::SVGProgressRing_spin .pr   ;\# indeterminate
ttkbootstrap::SVGProgressRing_stop .pr
.fi
.RE
.SS "SVGCombobox"
Combobox with SVG pill-shaped border and focus highlight.
.RS
.nf
ttkbootstrap::SVGCombobox .cb \-values {Red Green Blue} \-bootstyle primary
.fi
.RE
.SS "SVGSpinbox"
Spinbox with SVG pill-shaped border and focus highlight.
.RS
.nf
ttkbootstrap::SVGSpinbox .sp \-from 0 \-to 100 \-bootstyle primary
.fi
.RE
.SS "SVGFormField"
Form field with label, SVG entry, and live validation.
.RS
.nf
ttkbootstrap::SVGFormField .ff \-label "Email" \-bootstyle primary \
    \-validate {regexp {.+@.+} $value} \
    \-validmsg "OK" \-invalidmsg "Invalid"
.fi
.RE
.SS "SVGColourPicker"
Colour palette with 32 clickable SVG swatches.
.RS
.nf
ttkbootstrap::SVGColourPicker .cp \-variable ::mycolour
.fi
.RE
.SS "SVGNotificationBanner"
Slide\-in notification with SVG rounded corners and shadow.
.RS
.nf
ttkbootstrap::SVGNotificationBanner::show \
    \-title "Success" \-message "Saved." \-bootstyle success \-duration 3000
.fi
.RE

.SS "SVGSearchBar"
Pill\-shaped search entry with magnifying glass icon and clear button.
.RS
.nf
ttkbootstrap::SVGSearchBar .sb \-bootstyle primary \
    \-placeholder "Search..." \-width 30 \-command {puts $query}
.fi
.RE
Options: \fB\-bootstyle\fR, \fB\-placeholder\fR, \fB\-width\fR, \fB\-command\fR, \fB\-textvariable\fR
.SS "SVGAvatar"
Circular avatar displaying coloured initials.
.RS
.nf
ttkbootstrap::SVGAvatar .av \-text "JD" \-bootstyle primary \-size 48
.fi
.RE
.SS "SVGChip"
Material Design chip with optional close button.
.RS
.nf
ttkbootstrap::SVGChip .ch \-text "Python" \-bootstyle primary \-closeable 1
.fi
.RE
.SS "SVGDialog"
Modal dialog with coloured title bar and action buttons.
.RS
.nf
set result [ttkbootstrap::SVGDialog::show \
    \-title "Confirm" \-message "Are you sure?" \
    \-bootstyle primary \-buttons {Cancel OK} \-default OK]
.fi
.RE
Returns the button text that was clicked.
.SS "SVGTabNotebook"
Tabbed notebook with SVG rounded tab headers.
.RS
.nf
set nb [ttkbootstrap::SVGTabNotebook .nb \-bootstyle primary]
ttkbootstrap::SVGTabNotebook::add $nb "Tab 1" \
    \-create {ttk::label %f.l \-text "Page 1"; pack %f.l}
ttkbootstrap::SVGTabNotebook::select $nb 0
.fi
.RE

.SS "SVGGradientButton"
Button with a faked vertical gradient and hover effect.
.RS
.nf
ttkbootstrap::SVGGradientButton .gb \-text "Click" \-bootstyle primary \
    \-command {puts clicked}
.fi
.RE
.SS "SVGSkeleton"
Animated shimmer placeholder for loading states.
.RS
.nf
set sk [ttkbootstrap::SVGSkeleton .sk \-width 300 \-lines 3]
ttkbootstrap::SVGSkeleton::start .sk
ttkbootstrap::SVGSkeleton::stop .sk
.fi
.RE
Options: \fB\-width\fR, \fB\-height\fR, \fB\-lines\fR, \fB\-shape\fR (lines|card)
.SS "SVGTreeview"
Tree with SVG chevrons, hover highlight, and selection.
.RS
.nf
set tv [ttkbootstrap::SVGTreeview .tv \-bootstyle primary]
set root [ttkbootstrap::SVGTreeview::insert $tv "" "Documents" \-open 1]
ttkbootstrap::SVGTreeview::insert $tv $root "report.pdf"
.fi
.RE
.SH "SVG ICON LIBRARY"
32 built\-in SVG icons with DPI scaling and colour customisation.
.TP
.B ttkbootstrap::SVGIcon \fIname\fR ?\fI\-size pixels\fR? ?\fI\-colour hex\fR?
Return a photo image of the named icon.
Available: bell, calendar, check, chevron_d, chevron_l, chevron_r, chevron_u,
clock, close, database, download, edit, error, file, folder, heart, home,
info, lock, logout, mail, minus, plus, refresh, save, search, settings,
star, trash, upload, user, warning.
.TP
.B ttkbootstrap::SVGIconNames
Return list of all available icon names.
.SH "OS THEME AUTO\-DETECT"
.TP
.B ttkbootstrap::autoTheme ?\fI\-light name\fR? ?\fI\-dark name\fR?
Detect OS dark/light preference and apply matching theme.
Supports GNOME, KDE, XFCE, macOS, and Windows.

.SH "DPI SCALING"
All widgets auto\-scale for HiDPI and large displays.
.TP
.B ttkbootstrap::_sp \fIpixels\fR
Scale pixel value for current DPI. 10 at 96dpi becomes 20 at 192dpi.
.TP
.B ttkbootstrap::_sf \fIpoints\fR
Scale font size for current DPI.
.TP
.B ttkbootstrap::_sp2 \fIx y\fR
Scale padding pair {x y}.
.TP
.B ttkbootstrap::scaleFactor
Return current scale factor (1.0, 2.0, etc.)
.TP
.B ttkbootstrap::_fontPad \fIhPx\fR
Compute {hPad vPad} from font metrics for consistent text centering.
.SH "COLOUR UTILITIES"
.TP
.B ttkbootstrap::_contrastFg \fI$hex\fR
Return black or white for best contrast against the given colour.
.TP
.B ttkbootstrap::_darken \fI$hex percent\fR
Darken a colour by the given percentage.
.TP
.B ttkbootstrap::_lighten \fI$hex percent\fR
Lighten a colour by the given percentage.
.SH EXAMPLES
.SS "Minimal App"
.RS
.nf
source ttkbootstrap.tcl
ttkbootstrap::Window \-themename litera \\
    \-title "Hello" \-size {400 300}
ttk::button .btn \-text "Click" \\
    \-style "primary.TButton" \\
    \-command {puts "Hello!"}
pack .btn \-pady 20
.fi
.RE
.SS "Theme Switcher"
.RS
.nf
foreach theme [ttkbootstrap::themeNames] {
    ttk::button .b_$theme \-text $theme \\
        \-command [list ttkbootstrap::setTheme $theme]
    pack .b_$theme \-side left \-padx 2
}
.fi
.RE
.SS "Dashboard with Shadow Cards"
.RS
.nf
foreach {title bs} {Tasks primary Revenue success Alerts danger} {
    set c [ttkbootstrap::SVGShadowCard .c_$title \\
        \-title $title \-bootstyle $bs \\
        \-shadow 10 \-width 200 \-height 120]
    pack $c \-side left \-padx 8
}
.fi
.RE
.SH FILES
.TP
.B ttkbootstrap.tcl
Main package with core functions and SVG widgets.
.TP
.B widgets/*.tcl
Original widget implementations.
.TP
.B gallery/showcase.tcl
Interactive widget showcase demo.
.TP
.B docs/
Documentation: tutorial, widget reference, themes, API.
.SH REQUIREMENTS
Tcl/Tk 9.0 or later (with SVG support via nanosvg).
.SH AUTHORS
ttkbootstrap\-tcl is a Tcl/Tk port of the Python ttkbootstrap library.
.SH "GOTCHAS"
.TP
.B Input widgets wrap a child entry
\fBSVGEntry\fR, \fBSVGCombobox\fR, \fBSVGSpinbox\fR, \fBSVGSearchBar\fR and
\fBSVGFormField\fR put the editable control in a child path. Call
\fBget\fR/\fBinsert\fR/\fBdelete\fR on the child, not the outer path:
.nf
    SVGEntry .e      -> .e.ent
    SVGCombobox .cb  -> .cb.cb
    SVGSpinbox .sp   -> .sp.sp
    SVGSearchBar .sb -> .sb.ent
    SVGFormField .ff -> .ff.ent.ent
.fi
Or, as of 1.5.0, use the accessors \fBSVGEntry::get\fR / \fB::set\fR /
\fB::clear\fR (and the same for SVGCombobox/SVGSpinbox/SVGSearchBar/
SVGFormField), or pass \fB\-textvariable\fR and use that variable.
.TP
.B Composite widgets are not ttk widgets
\fBSVG*\fR widgets are built from frame/label/canvas and do not support
\fB$w invoke\fR, \fB$w state\fR, or ttk-style \fBcget\fR. Use options,
\fB\-variable\fR, and \fBWidget::method\fR subcommands.
.TP
.B Errors are raised, not returned
Bad theme names, color keys, and \fB\-bootstyle\fR values raise descriptive
errors. Wrap calls in \fBcatch\fR when passing user-supplied values.
.TP
.B Widget paths must be unique
Re-creating a widget at an existing path raises the standard Tk
"window name already exists" error. Destroy the old one first.
.TP
.B Numeric options are not range-checked
Reversed scale ranges, a zero meter total, or fractional ratings are accepted
without error but may render oddly. Validate user input yourself.
.TP
.B Test suite needs a UTF-8 locale
Run with \fBLANG=en_US.UTF-8\fR or the box-drawing characters in the output
raise an encoding error.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR tclsh (1),
.BR wish (1),
.BR ttk::intro (3tk)
.PP
Documentation: docs/gettingstarted/tutorial.md, docs/widgets.md
